@node cookbook
@chapter Common patterns


@section Hello world

@example
HALT
@end example

Will render a template without any external symbols and terminate execution immediately.


@anchor{handling_menus}
@section Handling menus and inputs

@example
MOUT to_foo 0
MOUT to_bar 1
MOUT upup 2
HALT
INCMP foo 0
INCMP bar 1
INCMP _ 2
@end example

Create three menu items, resolving the menu symbols @code{to_foo}, @code{to_bar} and @code{upup} respectively to translated text and pairing with the selectors.

Yield for client input. Then attempt to match input to selectors:

@itemize
@item if selector is @code{0}, execute node @code{foo}.
@item if selector is @code{1}, execute node @code{bar}.
@item if selector is @code{2}, execute previous node in stack.
@end itemize


@subsection Menu batch version

@example
DOWN foo 0 to_foo
DOWN bar 1 to_bar
UP 2 upup
@end example

This example produces exactly the same bytecode result as the @ref{handling_menus,previous example}.


@section Signal flow control

@example
LOAD foo 1
CATCH bar 8 1
MOVE baz
@end example

If loading the external symbol @code{foo} sets the flag @code{8}, then immediately move to @code{bar}.

Otherwise, move to @code{baz}.


@anchor{multiple_pages}
@section Multiple pages

@example
LOAD foo 0
MNEXT to_fwd 11 
MPREV to_back 22
HALT
INCMP > 11
INCMP < 22
@end example

Load external symbol @code{foo} as a @emph{sink}.

If content spans multiple pages, resolve @code{to_fwd} and @code{to_back} as labels for lateral navigation options in the menu.

Also handle the lateral navigation inputs.

@subsection Menu batch version

@example
LOAD foo 0
NEXT 11 to_fwd
PREVIOUS 22 to_back
@end example

This example produces exactly the same bytecode result as the @ref{multiple_pages,previous example}.


@anchor{multiple_menus}
@section Multi-page menus

@example
MSINK
MNEXT to_fwd 11 
MPREV to_back 22
MOUT inky 0
MOUT pinky 1
MOUT blinky 2
MOUT clyde 3
MOUT tinkywinky 4
MOUT dipsy 5
MOUT lala 6
MOUT pu 7
HALT
INCMP foo 0
INCMP foo 1
INCMP foo 2
INCMP foo 3
INCMP foo 4
INCMP foo 5
INCMP foo 6
INCMP bar 7
@end example

Enable splitting menu over several pages, and route all valid inputs to the @code{foo} node, except for @code{7} which is routed to the @code{bar} node.


@subsection Menu batch version

@example
MSINK
MNEXT to_fwd 11 
MPREV to_back 22
DOWN foo 0 inky
DOWN foo 1 pinky
DOWN foo 2 blinky
DOWN foo 3 clyde
DOWN foo 4 tinkywinky
DOWN foo 5 dipsy
DOWN foo 6 lala
DOWN bar 7 pu
@end example

This example produces exactly the same bytecode result as the @ref{multiple_menus,previous example}.


@section Default input handler

@example
MOUT to_foo 0
HALT
INCMP foo 0
INCMP bar *
@end example

If input is @code{0}, route to the @code{foo}. Any other input will route to the @code{bar} node.


@section Graceful quit

@example
LOAD msg 0
HALT
@end example

Execution will stop (without error) and the node template render will be displayed. Any content returned from the execution of the @code{msg} symbol will be appended to the render. Lastly the @code{MOVE ^} will be appended automatically to the state bytecode.
