@node instructions
@chapter Instructions


@section Data types


@anchor{node_type}
@subsection node

A node name is a string.

Both regular and special node names exist.

@subsubsection Regular node 

Must be one or more characters long.

Starts with a 7-bit alphabetical character.

The remainder of the string may contain 7-bit alphanumeric characters or underscore.


@subsubsection Special node

Special node names are a single character.

See @ref{node_names, Node names} for details. 


@subsection label

Same rules as for @ref{symbol_type, symbol}.


@subsection size

Numerical value of any size.


@subsection selector

The selector @code{*} is used to catch any input.

Apart from that, a valid selector is a string of 7-bit alphanumeric characters.


@anchor{symbol_type}
@subsection symbol

Same rules as for @ref{node_type, regular node names}.


@subsection signal

Numerical value of any size.


@subsection matchmode

Binary numeric value, 0 or 1.


@section Instruction list

@subsection CATCH <node> <signal> <matchmode>

Control flow using signal checking.

If @code{matchmode} is 1, then jump to @code{node} if @code{signal} is @emph{set}.

If @code{matchmode} is 0, then jump to @code{node} if @code{signal} is @emph{not set}.

Existing bytecode in buffer is cleared before the jump.


@subsection CROAK <signal> <matchmode>

Clear state and restart execution from top if signal is matched.

Signal match is the same as for @code{CATCH}.

@subsection HALT

Halt execution and yield control to client.

Any remaining bytecode is kept in buffer. 


@subsection INCMP <node> <selector>

Compare registered input to @code{selector}.

If match, it has the same side-effects as @code{MOVE}.

In addition, any consecutive @code{INCMP} matches will be ignored until next @code{HALT} is encountered.


@subsection LOAD <symbol> <size>

Execute the code symbol @code{symbol} and cache the result.

Result must be constrained to the given @code{size}.

This is a noop if symbol has already been loaded in the current scope.


@subsection MAP <symbol>

Expose result from @code{symbol} previously loaded by @code{LOAD} to the renderer.


@subsection MNEXT <label> <selector>

Activate the "next" part of lateral navigation.

Define how to display the menu choice for advancing to the next page.


@subsection MOUT <label> <selector>

Add menu entry.

Each entry should have a corresponding `INCMP` with matching @code{selector}.

Attempt to resolve @code{label} to a language-enabled string to use as menu title, or by default use the @code{label} directly.


@subsection MOVE <node>

Load bytecode and template corresponding to @code{node}.

The loaded bytecode is appended to existing bytecode in buffer.

Invalidates effects of all preceding @code{MAP} calls.


@subsection MPREV <label> <selector>

Activate the "previous" part of lateral navigation.

Define how to display the menu choice for going back to the previous page.


@subsection MSINK

If set, the menu is defined as the multi-page content sink.

Cannot be used with an active @code{MAP} of a symbol with @code{LOAD} size @code{0}.


@subsection RELOAD <symbol>

Execute a code symbol already loaded by @code{LOAD} and overwrite the existing cache with the new results.

Constrained to the previously given size for the same symbol.



@section Batch instructions

Some convenience instructions are made available for defining menus.

There instruction @strong{MUST} be used at the @emph{end} of the node's assembly code, as they expand to code on either side of a @code{HALT} instruction.

@table @code
@item DOWN <symbol> <selector> <label>
Descend to next frame and move to @code{symbol}.
@item UP <selector> <label>
Return to the previous frame.
@item NEXT <selector> <label>
Activate and set @emph{next} menu option for browsing multiple-page renders.
@item PREVIOUS <selector> <label>
Activate and set @emph{previuos} menu option for browsing multiple-page renders.  (If @code{MNEXT}/@code{NEXT} has not been defined this will not be rendered).
@end table


@subsection Batch menu expansion

@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@headitem Batch instruction
@tab Expanded instruction
@item @example
DOWN foo 0 to_foo
@end example
@tab @example
MOUT to_foo 0
HALT
INCMP foo 0
@end example
@item @example
UP 1 back
@end example
@tab @example
MOUT back 1
HALT
INCMP _ 1
@end example
@item @example
NEXT 2 fwd
@end example
@tab @example
MNEXT fwd 2
HALT
INCMP > 2
@end example
@item @example
PREVIOUS 3 back
@end example
@tab @example
MPREV back 3
HALT
INCMP < 3
@end example
@item @example
DOWN foo 0 to_foo
UP 1 back
@end example
@tab @example
MOUT to_foo 0
MOUT back 1
HALT
INCMP foo 0
INCMP _ 1
@end example
@end multitable
