@node navigation
@chapter Navigation


Nodes are navigated by name, using a navigation stack.

Every movement @emph{down} adds a node to the stack, and every movement @emph{up} removes one node from the stack.

Additionally, @emph{lateral} movement is available, for nodes whose contents span mulitple pages.


@section Entry point

All VM executions require an @emph{entry point}.

If not explicitly set in the code, the node name @code{root} is used.

Attempting to navigate @emph{up} from the entry point node will fail and terminate execution.


@anchor{lateral_navigation}
@section Lateral navigation

Lateral navigation is only available for node output spanning multiple pages. See @ref{render_multi, Multi-page rendering} for details.

Lateral navigation will fail and terminate execution when:

@itemize
@item executing a single-page node.
@item attempting @emph{next} beyond the last page.
@item attempting @emph{previous} on the first page.
@end itemize


@anchor{node_names}
@section Node names

Regular node names @emph{must} start with an alphabetical character. The rest of the string may contain alphanumeric characters and underscore.

@subsection Special node names

A selection of special node names are available for relative navigation. They are single-character tokens, listed below with their respective ASCII codes.

@table @code
@item . (0x2E)
Repeat the same node.
@item _ (0x5F)
Go to the previous node in the stack.
@item > (0x3E)
Go to the next page of a multi-page node. Will fail if used in a single-page context and/or resulting page index is out of bounds.
@item < (0x3C)
Go to the next page of a multi-page node. Will fail if used on the first (or single) page.
@item ^ (0x5E)
Go to the topmost node. Will execute each intermediate node in the stack.
@end table


@subsection Builtin node names

Uncaught exceptions in the code flow that should not halt execution are routed to a builtin node named @code{_catch}.


@section Navigation stack

Consider the following navigation example, illustrating the state of the stack for each step after execution.

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .65 .10
@headitem instruction
@tab stack
@tab page index
@item @code{MOVE foo}
@tab foo
@tab 0
@item @code{MOVE bar}
@tab foo/bar
@tab 0
@item @code{MOVE baz}
@tab foo/bar/baz
@tab 0
@item @code{MOVE >}
@tab foo/bar/baz
@tab 1
@item @code{MOVE >}
@tab foo/bar/baz
@tab 2
@item @code{MOVE <}
@tab foo/bar/baz
@tab 1
@item @code{MOVE .}
@tab foo/bar/baz
@tab 1
@item @code{MOVE _}
@tab foo/bar
@tab 0
@item @code{MOVE baz}
@tab foo/bar/baz
@tab 0
@item @code{MOVE ^}
@tab foo
@tab 0
@end multitable


