@node signals
@chapter Signal flags


@section Client-defined signal flags

The client can define any number of signal flags to use. The number of signals @strong{MUST} be declared explicitly in the client code, and @strong{MUST NOT} change in stateful or asynchronous execution environments.

In the assembly code, signals may only be referred to by their numerical value. The numeric value of client-defined signals must have numeric value @code{8} or greater.


@subsection Flow control

Signal flags enables the client to control the execution flow as a side-effect of the execution of external code symbols.

Branching is defined using either the @code{CATCH} or @code{CROAK} instructions.

The client specifies whether or not a set flag should be reset on next yield. If not, it is the responsiblity of the client to reset the flag when necessary.


@section Builtin signal flags

For the numeric values of the signals, please refer to the signals appendix.

@multitable @columnfractions .15 .20 .55 .10
@headitem Flag name
@tab Description
@tab Lifetime
@tab Writeable?
@item @code{READIN}
@tab Input is being processed. 
@tab From first @code{INCMP} until: an @code{INCMP} match @emph{or} an invalid input exception is triggered.
@tab no
@item @code{INMATCH}
@tab Input matched an @code{INCMP} instruction.
@tab Next instruction.
@tab no
@item @code{TERMINATE}
@tab Terminate execution before the following instruction.
@tab Until explicit reseet.
@tab no
@item @code{DIRTY}
@tab Rendered output is available.
@tab Until output is processed.
@tab no
@item @code{WAIT}
@tab Halt execution before the following instruction, and yield control to client.
@tab Until control is yielded.
@tab no
@item @code{LOADFAIL}
@tab An unexpected error has occurred during execution of an external code symbol.
@tab Next instruction.
@tab no
@item @code{LANG}
@tab Output from an external code symbol is a valid language code, and language should be changed accordingly.
@tab Next instruction.
@tab yes
@end multitable
