@node sim
@chapter An example vise implementation


Consider the following interaction:

@example
This is the root page
You have visited 1 time.
0:foo
1:bar

$ 1
Please visit foo first.
Any input to return.

$ x
This is the root page.
You have visited 2 times.
0:foo
1:bar

$ 0
Welcome to page foo.
Please write seomthing.

$ blah blah blah
This is the root page.
You have visited 3 times.
0:foo
1:bar

$ 1
Thanks for visiting foo and bar.
You have written:
blah blah blah
@end example

The simple interface above involves four different menu nodes.

In order to engineer these using vise, three types of components are involved:

@itemize
@item An assembly-like menu handling script.
@item A display template.
@item External code handlers for the counter and the "something" input.
@end itemize



The nodes are:

@table @code
@item root
The first page.
@item foo
The "foo" page.
@item bar
The "bar" page after "foo" has been visited.
@item ouch
The "bar" page before "foo" has been visited.
@end table


@section Templates

Each page has a template that may or may not contain dynamic elements.

In this example the @code{root} and @code{bar} nodes contains dynamic content.

@subsection root

@verbatim
This is the root page
You have visited {{.count}}.
@end verbatim

@subsection foo

@verbatim
Welcome to page foo.
Please write something.
@end verbatim

@subsection bar

@verbatim
Thanks for visiting foo and bar.
You wrote "{{.something}}" in foo.
@end verbatim

@subsection ouch

@verbatim
Please visit foo first.
Any input to return.
@end verbatim


@section Scripts

The scripts are responsible for defining menus, handling navigation flow control, and triggering external code handlers.

@subsection root

@verbatim
LOAD count 8 		# trigger external code handler "count"
LOAD something 0	# trigger external code handler "something"
RELOAD count		# explicitly trigger "count" every time this code is executed.
MAP count		# make the result from "count" available to the template renderer
MOUT foo 0		# menu item
MOUT bar 1		# menu item
HALT			# render template and wait for input
INCMP foo 0		# match menu selection 0, move to node "foo" on match
INCMP bar 1		# match menu selection 1, move to node "bar" on match
@end verbatim

@subsection foo

@verbatim
HALT			# render template and wait for input
RELOAD something    	# pass input to the "something" external code handler.
                    	# The input will be appended to the stored value. 
                    	# The "HAVESOMETHING" flag (8) will be set.
MOVE _			# move up one level
@end verbatim


@subsection bar

@verbatim
CATCH ouch 8 0      	# if the "HAVESOMETHING" (8) flag has NOT (0) been set, move to "ouch"
MNEXT next 11       	# menu choice to display for advancing one page
MPREV back 22       	# menu choice to display for going back to the previous page
MAP something       	# make the result from "something" available to the template renderer
HALT                	# render template and wait for input
INCMP > 11          	# handle the "next" menu choice
INCMP < 22          	# handle to "back" menu choice
INCMP _ *           	# move to the root node on any input
@end verbatim


@subsection ouch

@verbatim
HALT			# render template and wait for input
INCMP ^ *		# move to the root node on any input
@end verbatim


@section External code handlers

The script code contains @code{LOAD} instructions for two different methods. 

@verbatim
import (
	"context"
	"fmt"
	"path"
	"strings"


	testdataloader "github.com/peteole/testdata-loader"

	"git.defalsify.org/vise.git/state"
	"git.defalsify.org/vise.git/resource"
)

const (
	USERFLAG_HAVESOMETHING = iota + state.FLAG_USERSTART
)

var (
	baseDir = testdataloader.GetBasePath()
	scriptDir = path.Join(baseDir, "examples", "intro")
)

type introResource struct {
	*resource.FsResource 
	c int64
	v []string
}

func newintroResource() introResource {
	fs := resource.NewFsResource(scriptDir)
	return introResource{fs, 0, []string{}}
}

// increment counter.
// return a string representing the current value of the counter.
func(c *introResource) count(ctx context.Context, sym string, input []byte) (resource.Result, error) {
	s := "%v time"
	if c.c != 1 {
		s += "s"
	}
	r := resource.Result{
		Content: fmt.Sprintf(s, c.c),
	}
	c.c += 1 
	return  r, nil
}

// if input is suppled, append it to the stored string vector and set the HAVESOMETHING flag.
// return the stored string vector value, one string per line.
func(c *introResource) something(ctx context.Context, sym string, input []byte) (resource.Result, error) {
	c.v = append(c.v, string(input))
	r := resource.Result{
		Content: strings.Join(c.v, "\n"),
	}
	if len(input) > 0 {
		r.FlagSet = []uint32{USERFLAG_HAVESOMETHING}
	}
	return r, nil
}
@end verbatim


@anchor{long_values}
@section Handling long values

In the above example, the more times the @code{foo} page is supplied with a value, the longer the vector of values that need to be displayed by the @code{bar} page will be.

A core feature of @code{vise} is to magically create browseable pages from these values, from a pre-defined maximum output capacity for each page. 

Consider the case where the contents of the @code{something} symbol has become:

@verbatim
foo bar
baz bazbaz
inky pinky
blinky
clyde
@end verbatim

Given a size constaint of 90 characters, the display will be split into two pages:

@verbatim
Thanks for visiting foo and bar.
You have written:
foo bar
baz bazbaz
11:next
@end verbatim

@verbatim
Thanks for visiting foo and bar.
You have written:
inky pinky
blinky
clyde
22:back
@end verbatim


@section Working example

In the source code repository, a full working example of this menu can be found in @file{examples/intro}.

To run it:

@example
make -B intro
go run ./examples/intro
@end example

Use @code{go run -tags logtrace ...} to peek at what is going on under the hood.

To play the @ref{long_values, Long Values} case above, limit the output size by adding @code{-s 90}.
